Is the physical universe independent from us, or is it created by our minds?
Does life create the universe instead of the other way around?
Does the moon exist if no one is looking?

Counter arguments:
- Something is created (by us) doesn't imply that it can't be independent from us.  Your children are independent from you.
- A blind man still falls off a cliff if he doesn't see it.
- Creation and independence are unrelated.
- Creations usually usurp the creator to take reign.  That's what happen in nature.  
- 
Let's examine closely.
- Does the world come into being from a thought?  OR
- Does the world evolve from unconsciousness to consciousness?

It would seem we evolve from unknowing to knowing.  Thus, going from consciouness to physical does not make sense.
But it happens all the time i.e. you make things.
So it's better to say from an evolution standpoint, we evolve from materiality to mentality.  And from a creation standpoint, more evolved life forms create less evolved life forms.
But lesser life forms evolve to higher life forms.
So it's better to say that the unknowing universe was created from a thought.  Then the unknowing universe evolves over eons to higher life forms which in turn create lower life forms.  This process goes on ad infinitum.
This shows that the universe is cyclical.

But there must be some laws.
- Higher life forms can only create lower life forms and not the other way around.
- Higher life forms can create tools to aid in its evolution to even higher life forms.
- The limit of creation is the limit of his imagination.  One cannot know all the use cases of higher life forms and that is the reason why he can't create higher life forms from where he is.  Only through experience does he discover all the use cases and so he can only hope to create tools to aid his evolution.  When he evolves higher, the external universe will interact with him at a higher level thus giving him all the use cases that he need to design for.

The scientific model of the world is that physics come first, then chemistry, then biology.
Physics and chemistry have no notion of consciousness, only biology has consciousness.
Consciousness is the consequence of having a brain.

What is a thought?  How is a thought produced?

Is everything just a manifestation of energy?
OR
Is everything just a manifestation of the mind?

The current thinking is the universe comes into being from the Big Bang.
- Let's remember the Big Bang is only the observable universe.  It may not be the entire universe.
- The Big Bang creates space and time.
- The first 2 elements were created right after the Big Bang (Hydrogen and Helium).

In nature, children kill parents to take reign.
Even if the universe is created by us, it can still be independent from us.

Biocentrism vs physicalism?

What is at the lowest substrate of reality?

The lowest substrate of existence is energy - undifferentiated and primordial
Dean Radin thinks consciousness is the lowest substrate
"The day science begins to study non-physical phenomena, it will make more progress in one decade than in all the previous centuries of its existence."
Nikola Tesla, Inventor and Futurist
It is because we are flesh-and-blood living machines that our experiences of the world and of “self” arise.
Which one is correct?  I'll believe it when I see it OR I'll see it when I believe it.
